I attempted to find if it is possible to find features that could be used to differentiate between more plain-text and more "artistic" text.

Thus, I applied Parts-Of-Speech tagging to the given texts and counted the number word types for every author. 
Specifically, I counted nouns, verbs and adjectives. I excluded proper nouns.
The distribution for word type for each author is listed in the summary file "summary.csv".

My hope was that more adjectives should probably result in more artistic text. To prove or disprove this, I analyzed these word
types against every author.

1) For most of the given text, for a given author, the percentage of the adjectives to the total number of words is between 5 to 7 percent.

2) The author "Unknown" showed the least percent, about 4%. This is the story of Aladdin and the magic lamp. 
   The language of that text seems plain English.

3) The percetange of adjectives is greater for authors like "WEBDuBois" (The souls of black folk), Phillis Wheatley (Religious and Moral poems)
   and John Milton (Paradise Regained) and G. K. Chesterton. Reading these text files, seems like they are either poems or have more old English text and generally
   more artistic.
 
 For example, text in Aladdin looks like 
 
 "There once lived a poor tailor, who had a son called Aladdin, a
careless, idle boy who would do nothing but play all day long in the
streets with little idle boys like himself.  This so grieved the father
that he died; yet, in spite of his mother's tears and prayers, Aladdin
did not mend his ways.  One day, when he was playing in the streets as
usual, a stranger asked him his age, and if he was not the son of
Mustapha the tailor.  "I am, sir,""

and text from G. K. Chesterton looks like

"The doctor regarded the new-comer with a restrained astonishment, not
unlike that he would have shown if some huge but obviously harmless
sea-beast had crawled into his room. The new-comer regarded the doctor
with that beaming but breathless geniality which characterizes a
corpulent charwoman who has just managed to stuff herself into an
omnibus. It is a rich confusion of social self-congratulation and bodily
disarray."

At least to me, seems like these are two different styles of writing - the former style more plain English as compared to the latter style.

4) In addtion, I also performed this analysis on Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice. The percentage of adjectives was 5%. I also performed this 
analysis on 2 articles from TheGuardian. Surprisingly, the adjective percentage was 10% - not something that I expected.

 However, at least with the given data files, this preliminary experiment shows that there is some correlation between the number of adjectives in text and its artistic content.
 It will be an interesting experiment to compare news articles and poems / more literature heavy "artistic" text and develop a classifier that
 could potentially classify text as more plain-language or artistic.